---
Dissertation: "An Interactive Theory of Power Projection: Naval Mobilization, Geographical Expansion, and Alignment Opportunity"
Abstract: "This project uses comparative historical case studies of the two Anglo-French dyads (1856-1870/1882-1904) and the U.S.-Japan dyad (1921-1941) with the ultimate goal of developing a theory to apply to current U.S.-China relations. At root, I argue that the outcome of a naval power transition is contingent upon two conditions: (1) the interactive dynamics of a challenger’s expansion and the leading sea power’s expectation about its contagion effect; and (2) whether alignment opportunity, shaped by third common threats, available allies, and neutrals in the theaters of the power transition, is open or closed. I argue that while bilateral resource-extraction capacities strengthen or erode the underlying condition of security competition, it is the interactive dynamics of geographical power projection that bring a conflict to the fore and determine its outcome."

---

How do a leading sea power and its challenger avoid or end up in a war during a naval power transition? If naval power shifts constitute the underlying condition for a conflict, what are the immediate conditions for producing a strategic settlement or war? How does a variation in geographical power projection affect the outcome of naval power shifts? 

Given the conventional wisdom of hegemonic shift theories, one might expect an asymmetric capacity to lead to a peaceful settlement and a symmetric one to lead to a major war. However, the empirical cases I examine show that the symmetric resource-extraction capacity may be a necessary, but is not a sufficient, condition for determining whether the outcome is a strategic settlement or war. Rather, the two immediate factors that determine this are the interactive dynamics between a challenger’s power projection—that is, whether a challenger’s geographical expansion is directed toward the central or peripheral theater of the leading sea power—and the leading sea power’s expectation, or whether the leading sea power’s belief about its contagion effect on the first line of maritime defense and sea lines of communication is salient. Also relevant are third power politics in the region of geographic challenge such as alignment opportunity, shaped by common threats, available allies, and neutrals. Contingent upon these, the two naval great powers may arrive at a strategic settlement despite the symmetric capacities, or be on the brink of a war in spite of the asymmetric capacities. These findings carry policy implications for U.S.-China relations and U.S. foreign policy. 
