---
permalink: /non-menu-page/
title: ""
excerpt: "This is a page not in th emain menu"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - "/nmp/"
  - "/nmp.html"
---

Racial Hierarchy, Restraint, and Japan's Pursuit of Status, 1921-1936
======

Due to the racial hierarchy unmistakably demonstrated by the rejection of Japan’s racial equality proposal at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 as well as the U.S. Japanese Exclusion Act of 1924, Japan may have been expected to have forgone its commitment to the Washington naval system earlier than 1930, as the existing literature highlights the ways in which a rising power’s status concern produces destabilizing effects. However, Japan had not done so. Drawing on critical appraisals of the theories of racial status immobility and institutional status, this paper presents one plausible mechanism via which a rising power’s quest for status through restraint, as opposed to the pursuit of status through assertion, defuses commitment problems and induces stability even when it faces a status ceiling associated with race and identity. I argue that Japan’s commitment to the Washington naval system was generated by its pursuit of status through restraint. Having felt its insecure status as a non-white great power at the Paris Peace Conference, Japan sought to cement its great power status, and resolve its non-white anxiety to some degree, by agreeing to rein in its future naval armament. Moreover, the Japanese leaders were able to curb the agitation of hardliners by legitimizing restraint as an essential part of national defense from 1921 to 1930 until the Great Depression cracked the domestic political support among elites and the public for restraint. 

A Logic of Authoritarian Nuclear Concession
======

While the possession of a nuclear deterrent may bolster state security, an autocratic regime often pursues nuclear weapons in spite of domestic political-economic pressure, which undermines its legitimacy to some extent in the long term. I argue that an authoritarian regime tends to make a nuclear concession if its legitimacy is significantly eroded by domestic pressure from below and positive inducement from international actors offers a better alternative than fighting a conventional war against its adjacent adversary to resolve the security-legitimacy dilemma. In other words, if a regime’s legitimacy is substantially weakened by domestic political-economic pressure and it does not consider a war against its adversary a better option, one can expect the given regime to resolve the security-legitimacy dilemma by searching for political normalization with the U.S. and positive inducement from nonproliferation concession. In the cases of Iraq and Syria, a war against Kuwait and Israel was deemed a better way to deal with the security-legitimacy dilemma and led them to not make a nuclear concession. To support my argument, I process-trace the four cases of authoritarian nuclear concession, viz., South Korea (1981), North Korea (1994), Libya (2003), and Iran (2015). However, when the process of political normalization based on positive inducements is thwarted, authoritarian regimes revert back to intensifying their nuclear weapons program.

